.TH SIGIL-DEVICE 1 "April 2026" "sigil-device 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sigil-device \- CLI-based testing device for Sigil Auth
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sigil-device
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sigil-device
is a command-line tool that simulates a Sigil Auth device for testing and automation. It generates ECDSA P-256 keypairs, registers with Sigil servers, and handles authentication challenges via WebSocket.

Use cases include automated E2E testing, local development without mobile app, headless CI/CD authentication, and desktop client functionality.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Generate a new BIP39 mnemonic and derive ECDSA P-256 keypair. Stores state in ~/.sigil-device/state.json and mnemonic in ~/.sigil-device/mnemonic.txt.
.TP
.B pair \-\-server \fIURL\fR
Register device public key with a Sigil server.
.IP
Example: sigil-device pair --server https://sigil.example.com:8443
.TP
.B register \-\-relay \fIURL\fR
Register device fingerprint with the push relay for WebSocket delivery.
.IP
Example: sigil-device register --relay https://relay.sigilauth.com
.TP
.B listen \-\-relay \fIURL\fR [\-\-auto-approve]
Listen for incoming challenges via WebSocket. Use --auto-approve for automated testing (no interactive prompts).
.IP
Example: sigil-device listen --relay https://relay.sigilauth.com --auto-approve
.TP
.B respond \fIchallenge-id\fR \-\-server \fIURL\fR
Manually fetch and respond to a specific challenge.
.IP
Example: sigil-device respond abc123 --server https://sigil.example.com:8443
.TP
.B mpa-respond \fIrequest-id\fR \-\-server \fIURL\fR
Respond to a multi-party authorization request.
.IP
Example: sigil-device mpa-respond req456 --server https://sigil.example.com:8443
.TP
.B decrypt \fIdecrypt-id\fR \-\-server \fIURL\fR
Decrypt and return data encrypted to the device's public key.
.IP
Example: sigil-device decrypt dec789 --server https://sigil.example.com:8443
.TP
.B whoami
Display device fingerprint and identity information.
.TP
.B unpair \-\-server \fIURL\fR
Deregister from server and clear pairing state.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.sigil-device/state.json
Device keypair, server info, relay URL (permissions: 0600)
.TP
.I ~/.sigil-device/mnemonic.txt
BIP39 mnemonic backup (permissions: 0600)
.SH SECURITY
.IP \(bu 2
Private keys never leave ~/.sigil-device/state.json
.IP \(bu 2
All files created with 0600 permissions (owner read/write only)
.IP \(bu 2
Mnemonic stored separately for backup purposes
.IP \(bu 2
TLS verification mandatory (no opt-out)
.IP \(bu 2
Signature verification on all server messages
.SH SYSTEMD INTEGRATION
To run sigil-device as a background listener daemon:
.PP
.nf
.RS
systemctl --user enable sigil-device.service
systemctl --user start sigil-device.service
systemctl --user status sigil-device.service
.RE
.fi
.PP
The service runs \fBsigil-device listen --auto-approve\fR and automatically restarts on failure.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Quick start (interactive):
.nf
.RS
sigil-device init
sigil-device pair --server https://sigil.example.com:8443
sigil-device register --relay https://relay.sigilauth.com
sigil-device listen --relay https://relay.sigilauth.com
.RE
.fi
.TP
.B CI/CD automation:
.nf
.RS
sigil-device init
sigil-device pair --server https://ci.example.com:8443
sigil-device listen --relay https://relay.sigilauth.com --auto-approve &
# Run tests that trigger authentication challenges
kill %1
.RE
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error (invalid arguments, network failure, crypto error)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/sigilauth/cli-device/issues
.SH LICENSE
AGPL-3.0 - See https://github.com/sigilauth/cli-device/blob/main/LICENSE
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation: https://sigilauth.com/docs/cli-device
.PP
Sigil Auth protocol: https://sigilauth.com/docs/protocol
